STA 410/2101, Fall 2015, Assignment 3 Discussion

As the initial parameter values for Gibbs sampling, I used estimates
based on just the beetles with known species, with an adjustment to
avoid values for rho near 0 or 1.  This resulted in the Gibbs sampling
converging pretty much immediately, as judged by the trace plots,
though I discarded the first 20 iterations as burn-in just in case.

The resulting estimates from the remaining 480 iterations show
posterior means that are mostly similar to the maximum likelihood
estimates from Assignment 2 (though those were found without fixing
alpha).

The trace plots show some substantial dependencies along the chain for
some parameters (such as the rho parameter plotted in black), and for
some species indicators (such as that for beetle 8).  Because of this
I increased the length of the chain to 500 iterations, after having
initially run for only 200.

I also tried using initial parameter values found from averages over
all beetles (the same initial values for all species).  With these
initial values, the chain made a large move to a different place after
about 40 iterations, so it obviously had not converged before then.
For the remaining 460 iterations, it appeared as if it was sampling
correctly, but the distribution of states was in some respects quite
different from that found with the first initialization.  This was
true for a longer run of 5000 iterations as well.  

It appears that this initialization results in the chain being trapped
(from a practical perspective) in a different mode, in which some of
the species indicators are swapped, with 5000 iterations not being
enough for it to move to the other mode (which probably has higher
probability, since it better matches the maximum likelihood estimates,
and the estimates based just on the complete data).  This is an
illustration that Gibbs sampling (and Markov chain Monte Carlo methods
in general) can sometimes fail to give the right answer in a run of
feasible length.
