Prep6 Subqueries Solutions

Here you go!
 
Q1) Multilingual
country(code, name, continent, population)
countrylanguage(countrycode, countrylanguage, isofficial, percentage)
Find the countries where more languages are spoken than in the country with code 'MEX'.
Report the code of the country (as attribute 'code') and the number of languages spoken in the country (as attribute 'numlanguages'). Order does not matter.
Hint: Find the number of languages spoken in 'MEX' and use that subquery in a HAVING clause.
 
Answer:
SELECT countrycode as code, count(countrylanguage) as numlanguages
FROM countrylanguage
GROUP BY code
HAVING count(countrylanguage) > (SELECT count(countrylanguage) FROM countrylanguage WHERE countrycode = 'MEX');
 
 
Q2) English on Top 
country(code, name, continent, population)
countrylanguage(countrycode, countrylanguage, isofficial, percentage)
Find all countries where 'English' is the most commonly spoken language (based on percentage). Report the country names only (as attribute 'country'); do not include any duplicates.

Hint: For each country, find the percentage for English and check whether it's >= the percentage for all the other languages spoken there.
 
Answer:
SELECT DISTINCT name as country
FROM country, countrylanguage C
WHERE code = countrycode AND
countrylanguage = 'English' AND
percentage >= ALL (SELECT percentage FROM countrylanguage C1 WHERE C1.countrycode = C.countrycode );
 

Q3) Uncommon Languages
country(code, name, continent, population)
countrylanguage(countrycode, countrylanguage, isofficial, percentage)
Find all countries in Africa that have a language spoken by fewer than 1% of the population. Report the country names only (as attribute 'name'); do not include any duplicates. (Note that the percentage attribute stores a number between 0 and 100.)

Hint: Go through all the countries in Africa and use EXISTS to check the other condition.
 
Answer:
select distinct name
from country
where continent = 'Africa' and
EXISTS ( 
    select * from countrylanguage L
    where code = L.countrycode and
    L.percentage < 1
);