SCHOOL OF FINANCE, ACTUARIAL STUDIES AND APPLIED STATISTICS
Graphical Data Analysis
Assignment 2

Solutions must be placed in the boxes marked STAT3011 
in the foyer of the School Office, 4th Floor, CBE Bldg 26C.

The Assignment is due at Noon, Tuesday, 24th October, 2017.

NOTE:  This assignment contributes to your assessment for this
course.  As a result, you are required to do the work ENTIRELY ON
YOUR OWN.  This means you may not obtain help from other students
or from ANY other source apart from lecture notes and other materials
currently available in the class directory. This requirement is strict - you
are NOT ALLOWED to use other sources. Really. If you are found
contravening this rule, a zero mark will be recorded for you. For
this assignment, and for following assignments, please hand in both
text and graphics as part of your answer.  The graphics you hand
in should be RELEVANT: that is DO NOT HAND IN EVERY GRAPHIC YOU
PRODUCE IN THE PROCESS OF WORKING THROUGH THE ASSIGNMENT. Marks
will be deducted if you hand in irrelevant graphics, and if your
graphics are not sufficiently adorned with explanatory titles and
axis labels and so on. The text part of your answer should be in
the form of a report: it is not sufficient to merely annotate the
graphics you produce. The text part of your report must be CONCISE
and TO THE POINT: answers that are too lengthy may also be penalized.
NOTE: There is a 4 (FOUR) page limit on this assignment, including
text and all graphics. No pages beyond the fourth will be read.


The assignment must be handed in as a single stack of paper, stapled
in the top left hand corner. Do not use plastic coverslips, plastic
folders, binders or have the work spiral or otherwise bound. No
marks will be awarded for binding or other likewise presentation.

Here's the assignment question (much shorter than the instructions!):

The annual production in millions of net tons of bitumous coal
between 1920 and 1968  are stored in a time series object called
bicoal.tons.  Analyse this series.
