This course provides students with the opportunity to read and discuss selected prose or poetry in Urdu.Syllabus:(a) Development of advanced conversational skills in Hindi/Urdu[1]; (b) advanced discussion of Urdu grammatical usage and literary style; (c) comprehension of lectures given in Hindi/Urdu;(d) reading of Urdu prose and poetry.The course is conducted in Hindi/Urdu and is included in the Hindi major. [1]While Hindi and Urdu may be considered different languages at the literary-formal register, they are more or less the same language, Hindi/Urdu, at the colloquial spoken level.

Students undertaking this course will pursue intensive Thai language study at an ANU partner institution in Thailand. It may be offered for a range of Thai language levels and aims to provide either introductory instruction to new language learners, an opportunity for improvement for continuing language learners or extended instruction for advanced language learners. The course also aims to develop an awareness of cultural norms and values in Thai society as well as an understanding of cultural behaviour expressed in both the spoken language and non-verbal communication. Entry into the course is available through a competitive application process.

The aim of the introductory science course is to revise basic scientific facts and concepts so as to prepare students for science-based courses, and to help understand the science that underpins environmental issues. The course is non-mathematical, and avoids unnecessary scientific jargon. Students in the Resources Environment and Development program (READ) are required to take the science-based course EMDV8026 Introduction to Environmental Science (unless they have already studied Environmental Science), and this science module helps prepare them for it. The Masters of Climate Change also requires that students take some science-based courses.Students arrive in our program with many different backgrounds and levels of competence in science. Some students may already be familiar with the concepts in the science prep course, while others may be embarking for the first time on scientific study. The course ensures that all students are brought to the same level.Environmental management is based on a scientific, evidence-based understanding of the natural environment and human interactions with it. For environmental problems, part of the solution always lies in objective and reliable knowledge about the way in which different management plans will affect the biophysical world. Understanding any environmental issues in the modern world requires some appreciation of science.Science for the environment is primarily biological and chemical, with some contribution from simple physics and earth sciences. In addition, this module helps prepare students for the use of scientific language, and touches upon the nature and limitations

How can public leaders exercise ethical leadership, and how can we promote clean government, given the many excuses for 'dirty hands' made by government leaders? This course provides students with an introduction to debates over public sector ethics, focusing on the roles and responsibilities of public servants and their relationships to politicians and others sharing public power. The unit uses practical examples and case studies of ethical problems from across the public sector, blending Australian and international material so that students can learn from a variety of policy frameworks appropriate to the regulation of public conduct. Students will examine core theories of ethics with the aim of relating these to prevailing theories of public policy and practices of public administration.  They will also examine various approaches to codifying and enforcing public sector ethics.

Students will explore issues relating to international relations, transnational security and regional trade. They will also explore the experiences of various ethnic minority groups in considerable detail. This course will engage students in an interactive approach to learning the Thai and ethnic languages alongside a structured introduction to the cultures, societies and politics of mainland Southeast Asia's frontiers.On the ground in northern Thailand students' developing linguistic and analytical skills will be tested and refined during four-weeks of structured field exercises, language training and academic seminars.  Taking account of the broad complexities of these Southeast Asian borderlands, this course puts the challenges of greater regional integration in comparative and transnational perspective.Placements will be subject to availability and security assessment. Students are advised that due to circumstances beyond the University's control (for example: the onset of specific international security concerns, or international health crises) it may not be possible for this program to run or it may be terminated at short notice or without notice. STUDENTS ENTER THIS PROGRAM AT THEIR OWN RISK.

All students undertaking an Honours program in the ANU College of Asia and the Pacific are required to complete a 36 unit thesis. Thesis in Asian Studies is the Honours thesis course for those studying Asia-Pacific Culture, History and Languages in the Bachelor of Asian Studies Honours plan. Students in this course carry out advanced research on a question of their choice, relating to Asia-Pacific culture, history or languages. Their topic is agreed with their thesis supervisor and approved by the CAP Honours Program convenor. Students design and implement a project to answer their research question, to place the answer in the context of an intellectual tradition, and to communicate it clearly to others.

This course will explore factors that explain decision-making by individuals and firms in the context of many real-world situations, and provide students with an understanding of policy options available to government to reduce the negative effects of some aspects of this decision-making. This course moves beyond the assumptions of competitive markets, certainty, and complete information. Once these assumptions are broken down decision-making by individuals and firms tend to become strategic in nature. A core tool for analysing strategic behaviour is game theory. This topic will be taught in the very first week of lectures and used throughout the rest of the semester across different applications and scenarios within the topics of imperfect competition, choice under uncertainty, and asymmetric information. Students will be expected to provide a critical analysis of a range of real-world examples of policy interventions related to topics in this course.

The APP involves small groups of students undertaking applied research for real-world policy organisations. Each project is initiated by clients from the public or non-government sectors, for example  government departments, think tanks, peak bodies, advocacy groups, and advisory institutions.  The course is designed to give students an opportunity to extend their academic skills into the professional world. Working in groups, students learn about the inner workings of policy organisations through the process of designing and conducting research on their behalf.  In each project, students are required to understand client research needs, define research problems, formulate research questions, gather and analyse policy relevant data, and structure and produce a research report for the client. Throughout the course, students deepen their knowledge about a substantive policy area and gain exposure to the operations of policy organisations.  They also gain professional skills in applied research methods such as effective group work, negotiating client relationships, report writing and oral presentations. Each research group will be guided by a project advisor with relevant skills and knowledge. Student numbers in the APP are limited and thus entry is based on an application process. Students are required to submit a 300 word application in which they outline 1) their expectations of the course and how this fits with their career goals, b) what experiences and skills they bring to the course, and 3) the names of two referees from Crawford faculty. Successful applicants will determined by the course convener.

This course tackles the big questions of economic growth, inequality and sustainability. It shows how frameworks and insights from economics and political science can be applied to these questions, and it encourages students to apply those frameworks and insights to real-world problems to produce technically sound and politically attractive policy advice. Through a mix of survey and guest lectures, interactive case workshops and the writing of case papers, the course exposes students to the key policy debates of our time, and helps them to improve their analytical and writing skills.

The course aims to introduce students to the main concepts and theories of public management in a comparative and historical context, concentrating on the development of modern public administration in the developed democracies, particularly (but not exclusively) those of the English-speaking world. Topics covered include models of administration, bureaucracy and public management, privatising the state, governance and networks, institutions of accountability, public sector reform, public sector performance, community engagement and e-government.

In the 21st century the need for effective peacebuilding and conflict resolution is as great as ever. Many long-running conflicts remain unresolved. Pessimists even see the menacing potential for new wars looming just over the horizon. What are the conditions for sustainable peace? This course begins by examining the mechanisms available for bringing about peaceful resolutions to conflict and war. We seek to analyse the prospects for peace in the 21st century through a close engagement with examples of conflict resolution and peacebuilding from across the Asia-Pacific region. These case-studies each illustrate different challenges and approaches to conflict resolution and peace building. Students will be encouraged to consider the communication strategies, attitudes towards justice, political instincts and other practical attributes that are relevant to resolving conflict and building peace in such contexts. To facilitate a hands-on appreciation of those attributes, the course includes a hypothetical exercise designed to challenge us to look at peace efforts from a variety of real-world perspectives.The ANU uses Turnitin to enhance student citation and referencing techniques, and to assess assignment submissions as a component of the University's approach to managing Academic Integrity. While the use of Turnitin is not mandatory, the ANU highly recommends Turnitin is used by both teaching staff and students. For additional information regarding Turnitin please visit the ANU Online website.

This course explores the experiences of men and women in regards to the political violence associated with contemporary conflict.  It also critically engages questions of why it is that men and women might experience conflict differently, are expected to behave in different ways, and have different opportunities for protection, recovery, justice, and sustainable peace.  It focuses on issues associated with contemporary conflict such as 'new wars', terrorism, peacekeeping operations, transitional justice, and complex emergencies.  It explores theories of peace and conflict, international relations, security, gender relations, and research ethics.



This course teaches the logic and process of undertaking empirical, original and scholarly research on natural hazards and disasters. Students undertake an individual cutting edge research project in the Asia-Pacific region.

Syllabus: This course will provide students with an in-depth knowledge of Thai language and culture including values, beliefs and attitudes that are widely held in Thai society today. The course will also enhance students' Thai language skills. By studying traditional Thai literature, students will increase their understanding of the complexity of Thai culture. Topics covered will include Thai values and attitudes in the spheres of politics, economics, religion, and international and cross-cultural relations, tracing these back to their social and historic roots.  Students will be expected to engage with parts of relevant texts without necessarily having an in-depth knowledge of the texts in their entirety. The themes which these texts illustrate will form the basis for further discussion and further insight into the character of contemporary Thai language, values and beliefs. In addition, the course will introduce additional sources of historical and contemporary materials, including contemporary works from various Thai writings, cinema and drama, traditional and modern Thai sayings, idioms and proverbs.Students will be introduced to a range of Thai literature, both historical and contemporary, over the course of the semester.

The principal aim of the course is to provide students with an understanding of the interactions between population health and the status and management of the environment. This will be examined in the context of environmental sustainability, with a focus on the changes that economic development and demographic change can bring both to the environment and to population health. The course will also touch upon the environmental sustainability and health sustainability of human society.The course starts with a consideration of different types of sustainability, examined in the light of human behaviour. It will then introduce basic demography and its significance to population health and national development and examine how demographic factors, environmental degradation and poor environmental management together affect population health. It will touch upon the main health issues in developing countries (specifically AIDS, nutritional deficiencies, malaria, TB, certain parasitic conditions and waterborne infections) and compare the situation to developed nations. Pollution and toxicology will be taught via a focus on air quality, which is a major issue in most cities of the developing world. The increasingly observed health effects of climate change will also be examined.  The course covers a wide field of different science-based disciplines, presented by an experienced communicator, for students who are not scientific specialists, but who have basic numeracy and an understanding of and interest in development issues.

Upon successful completion of this course, students will have the skills and knowledge to:1. Understand the important events and themes of China's modern history.2. Critically summarize and examine scholarly perspectives on China's modern history and society.3. Critically examine primary sources relating to China's modern history and society.4. Demonstrate and explain ways to advance scholarly understanding of China's modern history and society.5. Examine and explain the effect of China's history on its self perception.6. Solve a variety of skill-based research tasks individually and in groups.

This course will examine social impact assessment (SIA) during the various stages of the project cycle. Social impact assessment will be examined in relation to different conceptual frameworks and types of project or activity. Alternative approaches to the assessment of impacts on livelihood, institutions, social structure, equity, culture and quality of life will be examined. The course will place a strong emphasis on practical case studies and students will be given opportunities to explore alternative impact assessment approaches in a number of sectors and within different national jurisdictions.



