This course allows outstanding students to work with a supervising academic to conduct an independent research program focussing on an issue or issues in Globalisation.  The topic and assessment are to be agreed between the student and supervising academic.

This course will consider Australian histories. That is, it will consider different groups' (e.g. indigenous, migrant, women and men) lived experiences as well as their engagement with the Australian past; how they do so and for what reasons. Students will read in a range of historiographies, including the social, cultural, and transnational. They will also consider popular forms of history making (e.g. film, television, museum exhibition) and have the opportunity to use a diverse range of sources in their own work.

The purpose of this course is to look at the origins of cities and the development of urban society in order to learn more about the foundations on which modern cities have been built. The urban revolution that saw the rise of the first cities will be the starting point for the course, followed by an examination of the pre-industrial city, the influence of the Middle Ages on modern cities, the profound effects of industrialisation, and subsequent development of the Western city. Topics include unique factors affecting Australian cities as these developed in the 19th century and thereafter; and some the development of non-Western, non-industrial cities.

This course offers a comprehensive introduction to the field of Spanish theoretical and descriptive linguistics beyond grammar with a brief introduction to the evolution of the language. The main components of the Spanish language; phonology, morphology, syntax, lexicon, semantics and pragmatics, are introduced using the corresponding linguistic metalanguage. Students analyse and investigate how these interdependent components interact as subsystems to form a successful communication tool. In order to facilitate the understanding of complex structures, students will also explore contrastive analysis of English and Spanish language patterns, and where appropriate with other languages.



Evidence-based policy development has emerged as key foundation of private enterprise and public service. Whether you're a policy officer, program manager or senior executive, understanding research and the research process is critical to innovation and improvement. In this course, students will gain an insight into how criminologists undertake research on policy related crime and punishment issues in Australia. Through a series of online and in-class exercises students will develop an understanding and the practical skills necessary to critique criminological research and implement a variety of methodological techniques. This course is weighted towards understanding research design and the application of quantitative and qualitative research methods; both of which are powerful ways to explore substantiative research questions in social policy and criminology.  Skills in research design, data collection and information analysis are essential and highly sought after by employers in both the public and private sectors.

This subject deals with fundamental ideas about how world capitalism emerged and operates. It investigates the global system of trade, investment and finance, including the workings of the IMF, the World Bank and the WTO.It deals with Keynesianism and its neo-liberal critics. Controversies over globalisation and its effects on living standards, and democracy will be followed. Of particular importance will be the investigation of the effects of modern globalised capitalism on underdeveloped countries. Finally, the subject examines the political economy of the movement of people across national borders - migrants and refugees and the political arguments it has generated

Since the time of the Buddha, Buddhists have developed a rigorous and profound tradition of philosophy. The Buddhist path consists in the combined practice of philosophical reasoning, ethical practice and meditation. This course will focus on philosophical reasoning. For Buddhists, enlightenment is attained by gaining insight into the nature of reality (metaphysics), knowledge (epistemology), language (philosophy of language) and our ways of living (ethics). These insights are acquired, in large part, by subjecting our beliefs to rational scrutiny. In this course, we critically examine some of the core issues in metaphysics, epistemology, philosophy of language and ethics that are elaborated by Buddhist philosophers. The course proceeds by analyzing some core texts of Buddhist philosophy (in English translation) together with some secondary literature. We study Buddhist philosophy not as an item of historical and cultural interest but as an attempt to ascertain how much truth lies in this system of thought. Once we gain an understanding of the views expounded by Buddhist philosophers, we will subject their doctrines to rational scrutiny in the hope of attaining some enlightenment for ourselves.

This course introduces students to the processes of developing a cast bronze from a prior approved object such as wax or an object that can be burnt out. Students will gain contemporary and historical knowledge of casting and reproducing art objects/components through practical and theoretical course models. Consideration will be given to finishes and surfaces relevant to conceptual intent. Students will keep visual and technical diaries and studio theory aims to develop critical and evaluative skills additionally occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of the course.

Within this course students will be provided with opportunities to develop skills in music performance. Each Performance course will require students to demonstrate an increasing proficiency in both solo and ensemble music performance. Styles covered can include classical, jazz, contemporary and folk/world music.  Learning and teaching activities will include lectures, small group teaching and ensemble work. Students will be able to access one-to-one tuition, master classes or conferences with School of Music Staff or through a Performance Development Allowance. All students wishing to enrol in these courses must have successfully completed an audition.

The aim of this course is to explore constructed methods of textiles as mediums for contemporary visual art. Skills, techniques and processes of fibre and mixed media construction are developed and extended through individual projects. The conceptual underpinning of the area is introduced through discussion of historical and contemporary examples. Students will also learn safe working practices and develop an understanding of relevant Workplace Health & Safety procedures to fulfill course requirements.This course alternates over two years (even and odd years). In odd years the focus will be woven tapestry/loom weaving and in even years the focus will be off-loom constructed textiles.

This course addresses three questions. Who is a refugee? What compels refugees to leave their homes? And how should governments and communities respond to them? In answering the first question we will explore recent examples of asylum seeking, state building and international law. In answering the second question we will look at the impacts of globalisation, war, persecution, poverty and environmental change on people flows. In answering the third question we will assess border protection, international organisations, and refugee advocacy. The interaction of concepts and case studies will illuminate the dynamics of political belonging and exclusion in international relations

This course provides students with an introductory overview to debates and issues in the Humanities, with a particular focus on the Public Humanities and Digital Humanities. The course will involve contributions from leading Humanities scholars from across the University, as well as draw on the expertise of visiting scholars where appropriate. Some key issues covered in the course may include: the relevance of the Humanities for contemporary society and culture; the political uses of the Humanities; issues in Humanities communication (such as copyright and open access); the impact of the internet on Humanities scholarship and research; and the role of 'big data' in Humanities research.

In different societies people speak differently, not only because they speak different languages but because their ways of using language are different. These differences can be profound and systematic. Today's transnational flows of people, ideas, languages, and practices mean that we encounter these differences in contexts ranging from home, school, hospital, workplaces, to international business, tourism, diplomacy and humanitarian work. This drives the need to understand both 'cross-cultural communication' (communication across different groups and societies) and 'intercultural communication' (communication within groups and societies).  How people choose to interact with others stems from the languages they speak, and also from their histories, the values of the groups they identify with, their relations with their interactants, the goals of the interaction, the setting in which it takes place and the medium (digital, face-to-face, written).  We explore these from a linguistic perspective, critically examining the empirical basis for claims made about communication in a range of societies including, for example, Australia, the US, Indigenous Australia, China, France, Germany, Japan, Israel, Korea, and Hispanic speech communities. A general framework for understanding verbal as well as non-verbal communication across and between groups is outlined, drawing on insights from linguistics, psychology, anthropology, tourism, media and communication studies.

The European Union is the most advanced form of supranational governance on the planet, yet it is widely tolerated rather than loved.  Students completing this course will have an understanding of what the European Union is; how its institutions inter-relate and function; the sometimes strained relationship between those European institutions and the member-states; and the role of Euroscepticism in contemporary Europe.  In addition to this emphasis will be placed on the EU's emerging foreign policy and contentious questions about the EU's enlargement eastwards into Turkey and Russia' “near abroad”.

This course examines a range of literary, theatrical and cinematic crime narratives from the 19th century to the present. It explores Australian literary, stage and screen history through the ideas of crime and the criminal, introducing students to key 19th and 20th century  texts and investigating the relationships between literature, ethics, law and society. It also introduces students to a range of critical approaches to reading genres such as detective and noir fiction, the western, and the gangster film. Films studied may include The Proposition and Animal Kingdom, and writers considered may include Marcus Clarke, Mary Fortune, Kim Scott and Dorothy Porter.

The central focus of the course will be the forces for continuity and change in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, and the challenges facing efforts to sustain a viable and productive peace process. The course assumes, but does not require, fairly extensive knowledge of the Middle East including the historical context of the Arab-Israel conflict in general. Those students who have not studied politics in the Middle East at undergraduate level will be encouraged and assisted to broaden the scope of their reading. Initially the course will examine the Israeli-Palestinian conflict from four angles: the search for security and identity within national frameworks; the peace process; dealings between external factors, the broader Arab-Israeli conflict; and the political dynamics that brought about the demise of the Oslo process. The course will then examine final status issues that were supposed to be addressed through the Oslo process - especially refugees, Jerusalem, borders and sovereignty, resources and security. The course will conclude with a discussion of the micro and macro issues facing Palestinians and Israelis, and how they may impact on the prospects for peace.

This course offers an introductory study of the language, giving grounding in basic communication skills, vocabulary, pronunciation and grammar sufficient to become functional at an elementary level, both in written and spoken French (e.g. learning tenses necessary to operate in the past, present and future). It introduces the reading of authentic short texts and provides listening practice to enable students to deal with everyday situations as well as to develop knowledge and understanding of French and francophone cultures and societies.

How do contemporary authors write prose, poetry and drama? And how did writers learn their craft before creative writing courses? This introductory course emphasizes writing process and revision through encouraging students to write and develop their own prose, poetry and drama, and by using writers' manuscripts and published works as examples. The unit teaches close reading and analysis of published prose, poetry and drama as the means by which writers historically learned to write, and as a skill necessary for revising drafts. Through attentive reading of contemporary and twentieth century literature from a range of cultural perspectives, students will understand the differences between genres, the social and political sources for creative work and will develop their skills as writers of diverse and engaging texts. The course will include discussion of editing, publishing and performance.

This course aims to equip students to understand and use Spanish at an advanced level. Different topics related to Hispanic Linguistics are covered, to help students develop linguistic awareness and thereby enhance their oral, written and comprehension skills. Specific topics covered may vary from year to year. Students will apply linguistic theory across cultural, social and linguistic aspects of the Hispanic world.