This course provides an introduction to High Performance Computing with an orientation towards applications in science and engineering. Aspects of numerical computing and the design and construction of sophisticated scientific software will be considered. The focus will be on the C and C++ programming languages, although reflecting the reality of modern scientific computation this course will also touch on other languages such as Python, Java and FORTRAN95. The course will study high performance computer architectures, including modern parallel processors, and will describe how an algorithm interacts with these architectures. It will also look at practical methods of estimating and measuring algorithm/architecture performance.The following topics will be addressed: the C++ programming language; basic numerical computing from aspects of floating point error analysis to algorithms for solving differential equations; the engineering of scientific software; general high performance computing concepts and architectural principles; modern scalar architectures and their memory structure; performance and programmability issues, and program analysis techniques for high performance computing; parallel computing paradigms and programming using the OpenMP standard; trends in HPC systems.

This course provides an introduction to the mechanics of robots and spatial mechanics. The theoretical focus is on kinematics and dynamics of robotic manipulators and control design for non-linear mechanical systems. Topics covered include: homogeneous coordinate transformations, representation of spatial orientation, Denavit-Hartenberg link descriptions, forward and inverse kinematics, Jacobian rate and static force relations, singularities, recursive Newton-Euler iteration and Euler-Lagrange derivations of manipulator dynamics, trajectory planning, linear control, computed torque control, passivity based control. The applied component of the course includes experimental work with robotic manipulators and a mechatronic design and build project.

Students will conduct a project, under supervision, that will act as a capstone to their studies in Advanced Computing. The activities in the course will normally include some combination of reading, writing,  artefact construction  and presentation, as appropriate to their project's topic.  The learning objectives, project overview and assessment arrangements will be specified at the outset using the Research School of Computer Science form 'Independent Study Contract'.

Within this course, topics may be offered from time to time to take advantage of the expertise of visitors to the University and academic staff in the IAS. Admission to the course is at the discretion of the Head of Engineering.



Within this course, special topics may be offered that vary from year to year. Admission to the course is at the discretion of the Director of the Research School of Computer Science.

This subject develops a knowledge of the variety, properties and characteristics of engineering materials. Equilibrium phase diagrams and kinetic TTT diagrams for predicting microstructure in materials. Properties of alloys (steels, aluminium, magnesium, titanium, and other non-ferrous metals). Ceramic materials: ceramics and glasses; forming of ceramics; structure and defects in ceramics. Characterisation, structure and properties of polymers; polymer processing. Rubber elasticity. Fibre and metal reinforced advanced composite materials. Strengthening and toughening mechanisms for materials. Fracture mechanics. Characterisation methods (mechanical and microstructural). Biomaterials and nano-materials.

This course will cover sustainability issues for industry, such as techniques for environmental conscious product design and sustainable product-service development. The syllabus will include life-cycle analysis (LCA) based on ISO14000 standards, end-of-life product management considerations (recycling, remanufacture, and reuse), and carbon emission issues such as global warming potential and ecological/carbon footprint, and cleaner production technologies.

Optical fibres now constitute the backbone of the world's long-distance telecommunications systems and are also being used increasingly in other areas, such as sensing, biophotonics, automotive, etc. The course sets out to provide a basic understanding of optical transmission systems concentrating on light propagation along fibres and light processing using fibre- and planar waveguide-based devises. Light propagation includes: modal propagation and Maxwell's equations; ray tracing, Snell's and Fesnel's Laws; single-mode, multi-mode and special fibres; pulse propagation and dispersions; nonlinear effects; fibre and planar waveguide fabrication; analytical and numerical techniques; birefringence and bend loss. Light processing devices include: couplers and splitters; gratings and arrayed waveguide gratings; Mach-Zehnder and multimode interferometers; optical amplifiers and attenuators; polarisers.  With knowledge of the basic physical principles of these key photonic components we consider how they affect the practical performance and limits; and how they influence the design of real-world telecommunication systems.  Laboratory work covers mainly hands-on fibre-based experiments and some numerical simulations.

Urban energy and energy efficiency will be placed in context in respect of demographic and social trends in Australia and worldwide, energy delivery economics, greenhouse gas emissions, energy storage, transport systems and the rapidly increasing use of renewable energy and electrical energy storage. The course is aimed at preparing students for policy, managerial or technical jobs in the fast changing area of urban energy systems.Rapid changes are occurring in urban energy systems, driven by falling prices for photovoltaic (PV) systems and storage, and concerns over greenhouse gas emissions. Roof-mounted PV systems are strongly competing with electricity from the grid and with gas for provision of water heating, space heating & cooling, and electrical services. Heat pumps, thermal storage, battery storage, smart electrical energy controllers, energy-efficient appliances and solar-efficient buildings are facilitating a rapid change in energy use patterns in buildings and factories. Electric cars and public transport have the potential rapidly to change urban transport systems and transport energy use patterns.

This course will introduce students to key methods and tools that underpin innovation across disciplines. Students will learn to use Systems Thinking; Design Thinking; and Lean Startup techniques to identify and validate opportunities, and to rapidly deliver results.By applying these methods and tools to simple real-world problems, students working in small teams will develop the confidence and skills they need to begin tackling more complex problems and to have a real impact on the world around them.

Providing energy for the entire planet without causing catastrophic climate change requires profound Energy Change.  Major developments are occurring in the energy sector, both with energy technologies and the economic, social and policy measures that accompany them.  This course focuses on renewable energy resources - the technologies that will comprise a large part of global Energy Change.  It aims to help students identify the major 'big picture' questions in the area of energy resources and develop technically sound ways of quantitatively answering them.	 	The course commences with an overview of world energy fossil-fuel resources, the scientific evidence for climate change, and an introduction to asking good questions - with a focus on ball-park analysis and appropriate physical units.  	 	We next look at individual renewable energy resources in detail (solar PV, nuclear, wind, solar thermal, hydro, bio, geothermal and tidal). We examine their scientific and technical foundations, available resources, integration with the grid, and broader economic and social issues to assess their ultimate potential as well as their practical limitations.  Alongside the technical assessment of energy resources, we dedicate individual lectures to calculating the levelized cost of electricity, understanding the current and future electrical grid, and examining broader social and political issues concerned with energy use.  Because of the rapid pace of change in this field, the course focuses on developing students' skills in framing questions and finding answers, as well as being able to critically evaluate those answers and support them with scientific evidence.

This course challenges and supports students to explore the organisation of research for the good of society. How can we identify and integrate what is known from disciplinary research to contribute to the resolution of experienced problems? How can we prioritise research agendas for the good of society? How are research findings implemented or used in practice?The course will examine the linked themes of “integration” and “implementation” of research to address problems and issues in societal contexts such as expert witness services and research consultancies, the research and intellectual property base for new businesses, approaches to introducing change to professional practice, and the contribution of research to the development of public policy. The course will include a maximum of 10 students per College selected on the basis of outstanding results and interest in and commitment to working on the application of research. This is a capstone course supporting students to demonstrate the best academic work of which they are capable.

This 12 unit course acts as a capstone to the Master of Computing and requires students to complete a practical project on an appropriate computing topic. They will be expected to carry out some combination of reading, writing, artefact construction and presentation whilst working under supervision. The nature of the project can be theoretic, experimental, design or development based on the interests of available supervisors and the student.

This subject introduces students to understanding of the fundamental problems in computer vision, and their state-of-the-art solutions.   Topics covered in detail include: camera geometry, image formation, image filtering, thresholding and image segmentation, edge, point and line detection, geometric frameworks for vision, single view and two views geometry;  3D modelling and reconstruction, camera calibration; stereo vision, motion and optical flow;  object recognition, appearance based scene recognition;  pose estimation in perspective images, etc.  The course is featured by an extensive practical component including computer labs and term projects that provides the students with a tool box of skills in image processing and computer vision.

The subject introduces finite element analysis. Topics covered include principles of virtual work and energy methods for stress analysis; derivation of stiffness matrices for one dimensional problems, plane stress and plane strain problems, axisymmetric problems and general three dimensional continuum elements; solution methods, effect of mesh densities and convergence criteria; variational approach for finite element formulation; use of commercial finite element software; application of finite element analysis to problems in solid mechanics and steady-state field problems. Post graduate students will be exposed to the generalization of finite element methods for various boundary value problems, non-linear problems and optimization techniques. Case studies on various practical applications will be presented culminating in a group presentation.

The course covers the description and properties of fibre and matrix materials in composites, the micromechanics and macromechanics governing composite materials, laminated composites and their behaviors under loads. It discusses analysis, design and applications of laminated and fibre-reinforced composites, micro- and macro-mechanical analysis of elastic constants, failure and environmental degradation, and design project. This course aims to gain advanced knowledge and analysing skills on the linear elastic analysis of fibre-reinforced composite materials. It includes concepts such as anisotropic material behaviour and the analysis of laminated composites. The students will undertake a design project involving application of fibre reinforced laminates.

This course provides a framework for the interdisciplinary systems engineering program. It outlines the design process for an engineering product or service. The systems approach is used to give students an understanding of how to integrate the technical engineering disciplines required to solve complex problems. This approach is traditionally applied to highly technical engineering problems. However, students will also see how sustainable design principles can be introduced to the design process in order to accommodate environmental considerations.Specific topics include:			Systems engineering life-cycle and scoping			Requirements engineering			Functional definition and analysis			Subsystem integration and attributes			Verification and evaluation			Design communication

Ignorance is a neglected topic, and yet it is central to the human condition. This course presents a comprehensive framework for understanding, coping with, and making decisions in the face of ignorance. Course participants learn that ignorance is not always negative, but has uses and benefits in domains from everyday life to the farthest reaches of science where ignorance is simultaneously destroyed and new ignorance created. They discover the roles ignorance plays in human relationships, culture, and how it underpins important kinds of social capital. There is no other course like this in the world, and ignorance is everyones business.

This course will provide engineering students in the mechatronics major with solid background knowledge on modeling and simulation of dynamical systems with a particular view towards mechatronics applications, thus preparing them for the material in ENGN3331 System Dynamics and ENGN3223 Control Systems.	In a series of case studies of mechatronic systems, students will construct models that reflect the important part of the dynamic system response. In weekly guided workshops and computer laboratory sessions students will learn how to analyse dynamic behaviour based on computer simulations and how to use simulation data to make optimal design decisions.