The focus of this course is on the synthesis, structure and bonding, properties and reactivity of main group organometallics (including Grignard reagents, organolithium reagents, organophosphorus compounds, etc), organotransition metal chemistry and organometallic catalysis. The laboratory component of the course will aim to develop skills in the handling of air-sensitive compounds using the Schlenk technique and the purification of compounds using chromatographic techniques.

This is a research-intensive course in which students undertake a self-directed research project under the guidance of a supervisor. It comprises a series of seminars on planning and conducting research, and on academic skills development. The majority of time is spent developing and implementing a research plan under the supervision of an academic member of staff.

This course continues on from MATH1115, providing an in-depth development of fundamental concepts of calculus and linear algebra, with a particular emphasis on the underlying foundations of mathematics. The use and understanding of proof and abstract ideas, will allow students to develop analytical skills which will form a base for further study in fundamental mathematics as well as providing a foundation for a wide range of quantitative areas such as computer science, engineering, economics, statistics and physics.  Topics to be covered include: Analysis - introduction to metric spaces in the context of the calculus of functions of several variables; double integrals, partial derivatives, gradients and directional derivatives, extreme values; vector functions, curves and parametrizations; infinite series, convergence tests, power series, Taylor series;Algebra -  theory and application of Euclidean vector spaces, vector spaces, linear independence, bases and dimension, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, orthogonality and least squares.Note: This is an Honours Pathway Course. It involves extra material and emphasizes the use and understanding of proof and abstract ideas to a deeper conceptual level than MATH1014.

This is a co-requisite zero unit course to assess student compliance with the stated expectations of professionalism, which are described in the leaning outcome statements.  Students who satisfactorily complete  the assessment tasks and do not have an adverse finding by the ANU Medical School Professional Behaviours Committee will be awarded a CRS-Course Requirement Satisfied grade.  Students who are determined by the ANU Medical School Professional Behaviours Committee to have not met the expectations (which may include not satisfying specific remediation requirements) will be awarded a Fail for the relevant Professional Behaviours CourseANU Medical School students are required to demonstrate professional and ethical behaviour consistent with the standards expected of the medical profession, students of the University and the expectations of the public. These outcomes detail the standard of professional behaviour expected of students undertaking courses at the ANU Medical School.

This course focuses on the fundamentals of meteorology and bushfire science, framed within the context of Australian climatology. It is designed to lead students into advanced third year courses in climatology, climate change, bushfire science, climate change science and policy, and water resource management and policy.This course has three focus areas: Weather - What is 'weather' and why does it happen?  Learn how weather serves to redisperse heat energy around the globe through global circulation processes, and how to understand the wind, rain and chaos that come along with it.  Includes a special focus on bushfire meteorology. Taught by Dr Nicholas Engerer.Climate  - What influences Australia's climate and why is it amongst the most variable in the world? Learn about Australia's main climate drivers and possible future changes, with emphasis on fire regimes. Taught by Dr Sophie Lewis.Fire - In Australia, fire regimes vary from infrequent, explosive, summer fires to annual, low intensity, fires in winter. How, and more importantly why, do fire regimes vary so much? This is the key to understanding the phenomenon of fire in Australia. Taught by Associate Professor Geoff Cary.

This course encompasses the second year of the ANU medical program.  During year 2 students study the digestive system, circulatory system, haematology and immunity, musculoskeletal system and the nervous system.  Students also learn about pathological processes of metabolic imbalance, inherited disease, infection, immunity, neoplasm and degenerative disease.  Students continue their learning of the themes and frameworks of the ANU medical program in the context of the physiological systems and the associated population and social determinants of health and medical ethics and the law.  The Consolidation block is designed to synthesise the learning of Phase 1 in preparation for learning in clinical environments in Phase 2. Course Structure and ContentBlock 4: Digestive Diseases and NutritionBlock 5: Haematology, Oncology and InfectiousBlock 6: Musculoskeletal and NeuroscienceBlock 7: Consolidation

This course introduces students to a range of abnormal behaviours and psychopathology conditions.  These may include anxiety, depression, personality disorder, schizophrenia, and/or dementia.  These are just examples and they may change from year to year.  The course covers clinical description, individual differences, biological, psychological, social and contextual influences, the examination of prominent models in the literature, and to a limited extent, the treatment of selected psychological disorders.This course is a prerequisite for postgraduate study in Clinical Psychology at ANU.

This course introduces the basic concepts of modern algebra such as groups and rings. The philosophy of this course is that modern algebraic notions play a fundamental role in mathematics itself and in applications to areas such as physics, computer science, economics and engineering. This course emphasizes the application of techniques.Topics to be covered include:Group Theory - permutation groups; abstract groups, subgroups, cyclic and dihedral groups; homomorphisms; cosets, Lagrange's Theorem, quotient groups, group actions; Sylow theory.Ring Theory - rings and fields, polynomial rings, factorisation; homomorphisms, factor rings.Linear algebra - unitary matrices, Hermitian matrices, canonical forms.Note: This is an HPC. It emphasises the sophisticated application of deep mathematical concepts

Thesis and presentations comprises honours research and two seminar talks. The thesis contributes 47% to the overall mark and the presentations contribute the remaining 3% of the grade.  Honours students are also required to take four 6-unit courses during the year, and students should check the Department of Mathematics third/fourth year course page for a list of available Honours and special topics courses.  MATH4005 is a variable unit course, and students should enrol in a total of 24 units per semester.  Research Work:  Research thesis (60 to 100 pages long). It should normally have the form of an in-depth survey article on a particular topic in pure or applied mathematics.

This course highlights the problems commonly encountered by those of the public who have not 'succeeded' in science or suffered from poor early experiences.	 	The course content includes:			Aspects of gender and multiculturalism			Language in science, misconceptions and analogies			Current developments in science communication			Research in science communication.

The interface between science and public policy - between our key modern sources of knowledge and action - is of fundamental importance to modern society.  Yet while our technologies and techniques of scientific enquiry have allowed us to learn ever more about the world, and our collective ability to enact change has become ever more powerful, the relationship between scientific knowledge and public policy action has never been entirely smooth. This course traces the dynamics, contours and fractures of this interface.Topics covered include: policy for doing science and for implementing its outputs; appropriate science and technology policy and practice; the relationship between science priorities and government priorities; the implications of funding arrangements; science in the community; the differing languages and time frames of scientists and policy makers; practical techniques for community involvement; the tensions between what stakeholders want and what they need; and risk perception, analysis and communication.It is our goal in this course to generate a mindset that can help to produce better policy for science, and better engage scientific enquiry with policy action.

This course aims to increase students' understanding about issues, problems and effective strategies of communicating science and technology with culturally diverse audiences relevant to Hong Kong. To this aim, the course explores how values, beliefs and expectations differentiate science from other knowledge systems. It examines the Eurocentric privileging of modern science and its communication, which are integral parts of Western culture. In doing so, the course looks closely at communities that are alienated from science, with particular reference to current science communication research, and prepares students to communicate across cultural boundaries.

This course provides an introduction to new discoveries in areas of importance to our understanding of human genetics and disease.  Fuelled by sequencing of the human genome and new methods of investigating biological function, research into the genetic and molecular causes of human disease is advancing at a rapid pace. We will examine not only the genetic abnormalities underlying human disease and disorders but also the breakdown in physiological processes and molecular biology caused by the genetic lesion. We will look at how this knowledge can lead to new disease treatments and to personalised medicine.  We will explore some of the societal issues raised by new technologies and treatments. We will cover topics including:• Genes in pedigrees and populations• Human genetic variability and its consequences• Genomic technologies and their application to human genetics• Disease gene identification• The non-coding genome• The epigenome• Genetic risk• Personalised medicine• New horizons in human genetics Note: Graduate students attend joint classes with undergraduates but are assessed separately.

This course aims to introduce some of the major concepts in the study of life, focussing on evolutionary and ecological questions. It assumes no previous qualifications in biology and, while this course is an important prerequisite for those majoring in biology, it is also designed for students not intending further study in biology. The program consists of four modules, as follows.(a) Evolution - diversity and classification of life; evidence for evolution; natural selection and adaptation; speciation; evolutionary trees.(b) Molecular Genetics - organisation and replication of genetic material; the mechanism and control of transcription and translation.(c) Genetics of Inheritance - Chromosomes and cell division; patterns of inheritance and sex determination; population genetics; human genetics.(d) Ecology - regulation and exploitation of populations; ecosystem energy and nutrient flow; species interactions; biodiversity; human impacts.(e) Behavioural Ecology - evolutionary approach to studying animal behaviour; social behaviour; cooperation and altruism; sexual selection; mating systems; communication.Specific topics may differ from year to year. There will be laboratory and field practicals as well as tutorials to allow students to gain the basic skills needed to engage with the main topics.

This course provides an introduction to Earth Systems Science, a new field of science that investigates how chemical, physical, and biological processes interact to shape and regulate Earth's environment. If you want to understand the science behind climate change or have been wondering to what extent current global environmental change is being forced by natural processes and human activities, this course is for you.Students from both science and non-science backgrounds are welcome. In addition, this is a foundation course for students interested in or wanting to pursue earth, marine or water sciences.'The Blue Planet' will build your understanding of how each part of the Earth system - the ocean, land, atmosphere, ice sheets, and Earth's interior - works and interacts over time. You will learn how energy and matter are transferred around and into/out of the Earth system through the water, carbon, oxygen, nutrient, geologic and solar cycles, and you will be introduced to feedback mechanisms that can amplify or dampen change. A tour of global change through Earth history is used to provide context for understanding the modern Earth, including the scientific evidence for global warming, and for predicting the future path of global warming, ocean acidification and biodiversity loss.NOTE: Honours students attend joint classes with undergraduate students and graduate students but are assessed separately.

This course encompasses the second year of the ANU medical program.  During year 2 students study the digestive system, circulatory system, haematology and immunity, musculoskeletal system and the nervous system.  Students also learn about pathological processes of metabolic imbalance, inherited disease, infection, immunity, neoplasm and degenerative disease.  Students continue their learning of the themes and frameworks of the ANU medical program in the context of the physiological systems and the associated population and social determinants of health and medical ethics and the law.  The Consolidation block is designed to synthesise the learning of Phase 1 in preparation for learning in clinical environments in Phase 2. Course Structure and Content Block 4: Digestive Diseases and NutritionBlock 5: Haematology, Oncology and InfectiousBlock 6: Musculoskeletal and NeuroscienceBlock 7: Consolidation

This course examines the ethical and societal impacts of new applications in biology. Technologies examined include: genetically modified organisms; cloning of humans and other animals; genetic screening and gene therapy; reproductive technologies; organ and stem cell transplantation, neurotechnology and the convergence of humans and machines to repair or enhance human function. Broad issues affecting individual and societal decisions to accept or reject technologies will be discussed, such as risk/benefit assessments and regulation of new technologies. Students will be presented with many diverse perspectives through readings, discussions and seminars from professionals from both within and outside the university.



This course will consist of a research project relevant to the student's coursework. It may be conducted in collaboration with an employer or other business or government body or it may be a project that encompasses many disciplines in science and relate to an issue or interest relevant to many areas.

Custodial medicine is the clinical sub-discipline catering to a population group of extreme disadvantage, in a potentially hostile professional environment. The course will introduce students to principles of clinical practice to a poly-morbid population group with heavy burdens of addictions, substance misuse and mental illness. The course will also focus on clinical practice defined by external forces - social disadvantage, social constructs of criminality, ethical research with subjects in unequal relationships, human rights law and international treaty obligations.  Students will be given the opportunity to observe clinical practice in this environment. If there are any criminal associates, they need to be disclosed to the convener as they may affect participation in the course. Any restrictions on clinical practice need to be disclosed. Visitors to the correctional centres enter at the discretion and direction of the centre management. A sensible dress code is enforced as is a requirement to always display university identification.