RESEARCH SCHOOL OF FINANCE, ACTUARIAL STUDIES AND APPLIED STATISTICS 
Graphical Data Analysis
Assignment 1

Solutions must be placed in the boxes marked STAT3011 in the foyer
of the School Office, 4th Floor, CBE Bldg 26C.
The assignment is due at Noon, Wednesday, 23 August, 2017. 

NOTE:  This assignment contributes to your assessment for this
course.  As a result, you are required to do the work ENTIRELY ON
YOUR OWN.  This means you may not obtain help from other students
or from ANY other source apart from lecture notes and other materials
currently available in the class directory. This requirement is strict - you
are NOT ALLOWED to use other sources. Really. If you are found
contravening this rule, a zero mark will be recorded for you. For
this assignment, and for following assignments, please hand in both
text and graphics as part of your answer.  The graphics you hand
in should be RELEVANT: that is DO NOT HAND IN EVERY GRAPHIC YOU
PRODUCE IN THE PROCESS OF WORKING THROUGH THE ASSIGNMENT. Marks
will be deducted if you hand in irrelevant graphics, and if your
graphics are not sufficiently adorned with explanatory titles and
axis labels and so on. The text part of your answer should be in
the form of a report: it is not sufficient to merely annotate the
graphics you produce. The text part of your report must be CONCISE
and TO THE POINT: answers that are too lengthy may also be penalized.
NOTE: There is a 4 (FOUR) page limit on this assignment, including
text and all graphics. No pages beyond the fourth will be read.

The assignment must be handed in as a single stack of paper, stapled
in the top left hand corner. Do not use plastic coverslips, plastic
folders, binders or have the work spiral or otherwise bound. No
marks will be awarded for binding or other likewise presentation.


The heights in inches of the singers in the New York Choral Society
in 1979 are contained in a list called singers with components
soprano.1, soprano.2, alto.1, alto.2, tenor.1, tenor.2, bass.1 and
bass.2.  These components are listed in order of decreasing pitch.
The first four components are female voices and the last four male.
Describe and compare the height distributions, with particular
reference to what factors appear to be important in describing
height.

Note: The data is contained in an R object named singers.
